# Covid-19-international
Tracking International lockdown measures through COVID-19

Examining the Effects of COVID-19 Preventative Measures 
The goal of this project is to uncover the relationship between different lockdown measures and change in infection rate. Since the start of 2020, the world has been unprecedentedly impacted by COVID and each country took their own paths to prevention and recovery. A year later, millions of points of data have been collected to track the progress of the virus and understand the properties of the contagion. 
This virus does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, origin, sex, and religion. So, in fighting it, the world came together with a new look on technology and data collaboration. Because of this, data scientists and other professionals are now able to voluntarily contribute their skills to help fight and contain this virus
There was no awareness of how the virus should be regulated and monitored. Through lockdowns and mandates, many countries were able to properly control the spread of COVID. Now that the data has been collected, it is time to analyze and understand how effective some of the measures and ideas truly were. How much did the mask mandate contribute to controlling the infection rate? Was the mask mandate more effective than implementing a national shutdown? By looking at national data from multiple countries around the globe, concrete evidence can be established to answer these hypotheses. 
Different countries around the globe chose distinct paths of containment. For example, Sweden’s original plan was to reach herd immunity as soon as possible. Meanwhile, United States chose to implement mask measures and a nationwide shutdown. How effective were these measures compared to one another? 
The overall objective of this project is to establish future guidelines/protocols for COVID-19 or similar virus containment and reverse trends of COVID or similar virus spread. Because the scope of the project is global, the data used must be solid, unbiased and plenty. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) contains daily updates on numerical data from all around the world, compiling from multiple sources. Also included in this data are dates of different protocols/mandates implemented in each country, population, the 14-day infection rate per 100,000 people, death count, and infected count. 
The countries selected as part of the project must have data collected from early 2020, collected an adequate amount of data daily and fully, and must have a sufficiently enough population to prevent skewed data.
For the purposes of this study and objective, vaccines/vaccinations are not part of the preventative measures. The vaccine was not released until 2021. The data analyzed will be for the year 2020. The guidelines and protocols are to be established before a vaccine. A secondary objective of this study is to avoid the need and cost of vaccine development for similar viruses/diseases in the future. 
